DP-13: Update Configuration docs (#5850)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/deep-dive/admin/configuration/external-auth.adoc

= External Authentication

If you have an existing directory for authenticating users, you can configure {page-component-title} to use that system to grant users access to log in, in addition to allowing log in from users defined directly within your {page-component-title} server.

== Configure external authentication

> The {page-component-title} webapp uses https://spring.io/projects/spring-security[Spring Security] for its user authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) concerns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {page-component-title} web app uses https://spring.io/projects/spring-security[Spring Security] for its user authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) concerns.
```

The Spring Security configuration files are located in at `$\{OPENNMS_HOME}/jetty-webapps/opennms/WEB-INF`.
Only one authentication service can be enabled in the `spring-security.d` subdirectory.

The following files are used for external authentication:

[cols="1,3a"]
|===
| File  | Description

| applicationContext-spring-security.xml

> | The main Spring Security context configuration file for the OpenNMS webapp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The main Spring Security context configuration file for the OpenNMS web app.
```

The `authentication-provider` parameter must be uncommented to enable external authentication: +
[source, xml]
----

> <!-- To enable external (e.g. LDAP, RADIUS) authentication, uncomment the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- To enable external (for example, LDAP, RADIUS) authentication, uncomment the following.
```

You must also rename and customize exactly ONE of the example files in the
spring-security.d subdirectory.-->
<authentication-provider ref="externalAuthenticationProvider" />
----

| spring-security.d/*
| Directory containing example files for common use cases.
You must copy one of these files, rename it, and edit its details.
There cannot be more than one active `.xml` file in this directory.

| *.xml.disabled
| Skeleton files included with {page-component-title} as starting files for your configuration.
The `.disabled` files are ignored when Spring Security loads.
|===

== Anatomy of an LDAP configuration

Whether the authentication source is an Active Directory, a Novell eDirectory, or some other LDAP-enabled directory, the basic components (expressed as "beans" in Spring Framework lingo) that need to exist and be configured are the same.

While Active Directory and OpenLDAP (and others) implement the same LDAP protocol, their schemas are substantially different.

> The biggest difference is the `memberOf` attribute, which is not supported by default LDAP v3 specification and is not present in common OpenLDAP installs, but comes standard with AD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The biggest difference is the `memberOf` attribute, which is not supported by the default LDAP v3 specification and is not present in common OpenLDAP installs, but comes standard with AD.
```
